For my project, I want to use Haskell to create a custom index construction
and backtesting framework for analyzing investment strategies. I hope to be
able to create a tool in which I can simply upload CSV files with historical
price data of specific investments (ex. Gold, S&P 500, etc.) and be able to
both test indexes I have create and have my code generate an index in which
it believes is the most optimal.

I was inspired to do this after my interviewer asked me to do something like
this. While I did good on the CS side of things (I know python pretty well),
I struggled at a lot of stat concepts such as mean-reversion and momentum. I
would love to take another shot at this idea, and find it really interesting
in general.

Easy project goals include parsing CSV files from a specified folder, defining
a hardcoded sample index (such as equal-weighted top 20 stocks by market cap),
calculating basic performance metrics like returns and volatility over a 
historical period without rebalancing, and exporting the results to CSV or
text files for analysis.

Medium project goals would build on this by creating the abilty to write and
upload custom indexes through configuration files/IO. This would include support
for selection criteria (ex. market cap thresholds), multiple weighting schemes 
(ex. equal-weight, market-cap-weight), and rebalancing rules (ex. quarterly). 
In addition, I think it would be cool to implement visualization capabilities
using Haskell's Chart library to generate performance comparison graphs showing
how different index strategies perform against benchmarks over time.

Challenging project goals would incorporate portfolio optimization 
capabilities, where the system can generate optimal index weights given certain 
constraints and objectives (such as minimizing tracking error or maximizing 
Sharpe ratio). More importantly, this tier would include proper bias prevention 
mechanisms: ensuring no look-ahead bias (only using data available at each 
rebalancing date) and handling survivorship bias (accounting for delisted or 
bankrupt stocks). Admittedly, this is pretty hard, but I think the challenge
would be quite fun.

I'll definitely need to teach myself a bit to finish this. In general, while
we've gone over basic IO, we haven't gotten to parsing just yet, so I'll likely
have to read ahead to get that done. Furthermore, we haven't learned the
visualization libraries that Haskell has, so I'll need to explore that further.
In general, I'm sure that there is going to be more stuff I will have to learn,
but I still should hopefully be able to learn those topics before the class
ends. Excited to get started!